Just the general form factor of the
terminal is perfect for agentic work
because everything is like timebased.
It's all about input of text and output
of text. You get to log what you're
doing. You can multitask agents in the
terminal really easily. And so I think
it's been like actually a great stroke
of luck for us in a lot of ways that the
terminal has become the center of
agentic development. It's a huge
opportunity for us.
In this episode, Zach Lloyd, founder of
Warp, reveals why the terminal is
becoming the center of AI powered
development. Zach shares how coding
interfaces are converging into a new
workbench built for prompting and agent
orchestration and why the next frontier
isn't developers typing prompts but
ambient agents running in the background
that autonomously respond to system
events like server crashes or security
incidents. We discuss the brutal
competitive dynamics of the coding
market and why model providers are
racing into the application layer. And
finally, Zach shares his thesis that
coding is nearly solved and that the
ultimate bottleneck for AI will be
humans ability to clearly express
intent. Enjoy the show.
>> Zach, thanks so much for taking the time
to join today.
>> Thanks for having me on. It's good to be
here.
>> Before we get started, can you tell our
audience a little bit about yourself and
what is Warp and what company did you
set out to build and why?
>> Yep. So, I am Zach. I'm the CEO and
founder of Warp. Warp is a developer
focused startup. Our goal has always
been just like help prodevelopers ship
better software more quickly. The uh the
product that we've built it it has an
interesting history. We're like 5 years
old. We started off building a modern uh
reimagination of the terminal and today
the product has evolved into it's sort
of a terminal with agents built in uh is
is one way of thinking about it. It's
probably simplest. It's a it's a
workbench for building software with
agents is kind of the more general way
of of framing it.
>> Awesome. Let's dive right in. Um, what
made you decide that the terminal was
the right place to build?
>> So, I've been a developer for a really
long time. I've always used the
terminal. Uh, in prior life, I was a
principal engineer at Google. I used to
run engineering on Google Docs. Uh, I'm
not a good terminal user. like I always
worked with people who were good at
using it and I saw that you know you get
just a ton of stuff done as a developer
because of where it sits in the stack.
So it's like a super duper powerful
thing if you know how to use it right.
But the sort of stock version or classic
version of the terminal I think is like
a horrible product. It's hard to learn.
It's easy to make mistakes in. The mouse
doesn't work. And so, you know, I was I
was interested in how do you build
something that's impactful for
developers? How do you build something
that helps more good software exist in
the world? And trying to reimagine the
terminal felt like a a cool thing to
take on.
>> H and how much of the thesis around
making the terminal great for single
player versus multiplayer?
>> It's a good question. So, the the
multiplayer part was going to be with
the business model was going to be. So,
it's like, you know, I came from the
Google Docs world. I built collaborative
software. I think the closest analogy
would be something like Postman where
you know they have like a collaborative
API platform. We were going to do that
uh around the terminal where you could
share commands, you could share sort of
like runbooks, um share incident
response manuals and warp actually has
all that stuff and it's super it's super
useful not just for people but for
agents at this point to have all that
knowledge baked into the product. Um, so
that was like going to be the the
business model, but where we actually
started was just like the hands-on keys
interaction with the terminal itself.
Could we reimagine the developer
experience of that? So we spent, you
know, the first like year, year and a
half of just like how would we like this
thing to work? How do we want the input
into the terminal to work? How do we
want the output to work? and like how
can we make it just like easier without
uh diminishing the power of the tool.
>> Yeah. Awesome. And you made the decision
to focus on rebuilding reimagining the
terminal pre generative AI pre-coding
models taking off.
>> Um
>> do coding models and agents do they
change your answer to the question of
like how important is the terminal as
the workbench?
>> Terminal is like ironically more
important now. uh the terminal has
become I think the preferred form factor
for working with agents. I mean
basically you can work with them in in
the IDE or you can work with them in the
terminal. Um or you like you can create
some other workbench which you know warp
you can see warp that way. Actually warp
started as a terminal is a broader
workbench now for agents but just the
general form factor of the terminal is
perfect for agentic work because
everything is like timebased. It's all
about input of text and output of text.
You get to log what you're doing. You
can multitask agents in the terminal
really easily. And so I think it's been
like actually a great stroke of luck for
us in a lot of ways that the terminal
has become the center of agentic
development. It's a huge opportunity for
us.
>> H I'm curious if you thought there we
were headed towards a world where people
just weren't going to spend time in the
IDE and do you think that's been
accelerated now? I think that the kind
of tools are morphing. Um
and so you know pre- agent world you had
pretty clear distinction between
terminals and idees. Um, today you have
tools like warp which are, you know,
we've like grown from the terminal and
added a bunch of IDE features like code
editor and code review features and and
the file tree and like we get yelled at
on the Twitter for having a file tree in
warp because it's not like a pure
terminal thing. But then if you look at
like the latest iteration of cursor
uh which you know started as an IDE it
looks a lot more like warp like the
primary interface is now more of a chat
interface and talking to your computer
but they you still have all the file
editing things. So I don't know if I
would be like terminal is going to die
or the ID is going to die. What I do
feel strongly about is that the um
there's going to be innovation and there
is innovation happening where the form
factor is changing to match what the
agentic workflow should be. So the form
factor is like
>> it should be geared towards prompting.
It should be geared towards um adding
context. It should be geared towards
reviewing agent agent generated code
diffs. Uh I think actually now like team
is even more important. um like
especially as you have more and more
agents that are not just like launched
locally by people but are coming to be
launched by system events and so I think
the workbench is changing and I I
actually think it will end up looking
more like a terminal than an IDE but
probably won't strictly speaking be a
traditional version of either
>> and is the rough framing of you know the
the reason to use each that you know
terminal is roughly equivalent to the
the chatbot like you can you can chat
with a coding agent and um hand off
tasks and and an IDE is roughly
equivalent to like a guey for actually
editing and writing code. Is that is
that the right mental model?
>> Yeah, that's definitely where things
have like started. Uh like Yeah. Right.
The ID is like Microsoft Word for your
code and the um the terminal is like is
like chatting with your computer. Um,
and the if you're doing professional
agentic development, which I would
distinguish from vibe coding, you kind
of want both of those. Like I don't
think for uh the pro use case, we're at
a spot yet where you can be so
disconnected from the code that you
don't need some way of like falling into
hand editing it. I would think of it as
like the hand editing is like almost
become like a fallback interface or a
secondary interface and the primary
interface now is the prompting interface
>> and so um yeah I basically I think that
that is the right like distinction but I
think it's all kind of merging product
wise
>> merging yeah interesting um you
mentioned procoders a few times what was
the decision to focus on procoders about
and um how do you think that plays out
over the next decade
Will there be prodevelopers left? Will
everybody be a prodeveloper?
>> So, okay, it's a great question. So,
what I think what I really care about is
um helping build software that I use
every day. like there's probably
10 apps or whatever in my Mac doc and
pinned as Chrome tabs which are apps
like Google Docs or Spotify or notion or
Figma or Warp which are hard to build
apps that I think um it's those hard to
build apps that the world spends most of
their time using and those are built I
think more by pros and they're
definitely built more by enterprises and
I just want be a part of like creating
that kind of software. Whereas I I do
feel like the the the nonpro segment is
cool and I do think it's it's actually
really it's empowering that kind of
anyone can make an app at this point.
Um, but I just think like the the sort
of economic value of the apps that you
build with a vibe coding tool, you know,
like lovable or replet or whatever is
lower uh than the economic value of the
apps built with a tool that's geared
towards pros. And it's also it's just
like I can't I don't think I've ever
spent my day using an app that's been
built in like a no code, low code, vibe
code tool, whereas I spend all of my
days uh like literally living in
software that is built by pros. It's
really like built for like these
immersive, hard, important, economically
valuable use cases.
>> Totally. The world is a museum of
passion project and I think that
includes the the software we choose to
to use every day.
>> Yeah.
>> Let's talk about competition in the
coding market. This is like this is the
most brutally competitive
>> subs of software I have ever ever seen.
>> Um and you're playing in interesting
waters, right? You're you're competing
with a lot of folks. you're
collaborating with a lot of folks. Um
maybe just help orient our audience. Uh
where do you see yourselves in the
broader competitive landscape in the
coding market?
>> Yeah, it's like it is competitive out
there because it's such a big important
market that a lot of people want to play
in it. Um and you know where where do
where do we sit? So
so we are a sort of general purpose
agentic development
workbench. Um, which means you can use
us like cursor, you can use us like
cloud code. I think we have a unique
product approach to doing agentic
development where we are truly the only
um platform out there that has grown out
of the terminal. So there's a lot that
have grown out of like IDE specifically
forking VS Code and they're all very
similar products. And then there's a lot
that are just um apps that run within
the terminal. And so though th those are
like text based apps and those are also
basically all the same. Uh and so warp
is is has a very differentiated product
approach. Um I think one area where our
product approach really shines is for
people who are doing like traditionally
terminalheavy workflows. And so that
would be things like um stuff beyond
coding. So stuff like the software
development life cycle, it could be
setting up projects, it could be
deployment, it could be working with
like Docker and Kubernetes, uh it could
be incident response. So like backend
DevOps, um S people who do production
work, I think Warp is an amazing tool
for them because it integrates so well
with all of these non-coding uh terminal
workflows. But the truth is, I don't
know, Warp is like we're at any given
moment, we're one of the top five agents
on Sweetbench. We're typically number
one or two on Terminal Bench. And so
it's a great generalpurpose coding
agent. Um, and so we're we're in the
market, but it is really competitive.
>> Yeah.
>> And uh we're trying to compete on the
quality of the product. It's like we are
in competitive there's competitive
pressure around cost which is like a
really challenging thing for us.
>> Let's talk about that directly and just
to hit it head on like how how do you
compete when anthropic you know can
subsidize their tool with with model
profits?
>> It's anthropic it's open AI and it's
Google. Um
so
we have to compete uh based on the
quality of the product for one thing and
so I think like we can be a little bit
in the more premium part of the market
here like uh coding agents and like
developer experience it's not it's not
bananas. It's not like a commodity.
these aren't like totally fungeible
things like the product experience does
actually matter and so we can get people
who who who care about that. I think
that matters and that um basically I I
also think you want to stay away from
certain user segments who are most
costconscious and cost shopping and so
that would be like vibe coders people
who are running like agents like 24
hours a day making you know making
prototypes uh and that's just not
actually the usage pattern of a
prodeveloper and so for you know a
prodeveloper
um I think you can make a pretty strong
argument that like the the actual
holistic experience of using the tool
might be worth like 20 bucks more, 40
bucks more, 80 bucks like these are tiny
sums compared to the amount of like
productivity that people are gaining in
the amount of software that's being
produced. Um I think there's also a a
way that we are trying to sit above the
model providers and you know I think
there's been a positive development here
which is that for about I don't know
three months maybe three six months I
think anthropic was kind of like the
main show in town when it came to
frontier coding and now I think Gemini 3
and and even like the latest codecs are
basically on par with the like the
latest cloud model and so there is
advantage to being able to let people
choose between those or model route
amongst them to model route with like
cheaper open source models. So it's not
easy and if you view it as just like
we're in like a cost race and all these
coding tools are the same then I think
that's like we have to differentiate way
more on the product and also just like
the orchestration of these agents but I
don't think it's quite that's quite the
situation.
>> Got it. Okay. So you're winning people
because they they love the overall warp
product and that includes
>> I think so
>> but also product like like the actual
you know terminal the better terminal
you set out to build.
>> Yeah and it is kind of a funnel. It's
like we have a lot of you know we have
like 700,000 developers in warp uh
actively and like there's like a bit of
a funnel from the terminal into the
coding use cases and the at least into
the terminal use cases.
>> Yeah. You mentioned being one or two on
terminal bench. What goes into that?
Like are you training your own terminal
models or is this harnesses on top of
the existing foundation models?
>> So for us it's a harness on a mix of
models. So
>> um and then like the actual capabilities
of the app kind of matter which is
interesting. So,
>> and what I mean by that is like terminal
bench, it's not just coding tasks. It's
like all sorts of things that you might
do in the in the terminal. And so, we
have some intrinsic advantage there by
actually being the terminal and not a
like an app running within the terminal.
And so, like for example, I one of the
terminal bench tasks was like playing
Zork or something which is like an
interactive terminal game. And so we can
we can like use the terminal. We can do
computer use in the terminal is probably
the easiest way to think of it. So uh
just like there's there's companies out
there that doing browser use, we can do
terminal use at the layer of the
terminal as opposed to at the layer of
like a web page which is at the what the
equivalent would be for the browser
analogy. And so that helps us like do
certain tasks on that particular eval
that uh is hard for other uh harnesses
to do. Hm. Got it. Um, you recently
redid your pricing. What'd you learn
about developers and how they want to
pay for AI?
>> Oh my god. So, we're we're still like
not fully out of this. Uh, yeah. I mean,
I could just explain like the whole
whole thing here. So, we our initial
pricing was um basically you you do a
subscription and you get a fixed amount
of AI credits every month. Uh and we
priced it so that uh this is when we
were at smaller scale. Uh if you like
fully utilized your plan, it would cost
us money. But the hope was that the on
the sort of on the average utilization
the that we would make money, right? So
it's like you have a plan that gives
people 50,000 credits and most people
only use 20,000. You can kind of price
it around that. What happened was like
the um people just used more and more
and so we got to a point where we were
losing more and more money. Uh and so
from a company strategy standpoint, we
had a choice. We talked to Andrew a
bunch about this. Like we could either
kind of play the like uh and like we're
growing really fast. Like the revenue is
growing, you know, we're adding like a
million in revenue every uh it's since
slowed down a little. It was like every
five days or something. It's like we
could play the game, go raise more
money, but the margins were really bad.
And so we
decided that wasn't just like wasn't the
smart long-term strategic thing to do.
And like also not like a race we can win
to the earlier conversation here. Like
we we we just can't beat people if the
thing is cost. And so we wanted to know
like are people paying for value? Will
they pay if if we are margin positive?
And so the way that we have like changed
the pricing is so that it's much more
consumption based. So you pay you now
pay for like a base plan of 20 bucks a
month and then you buy credits on top of
that. And we we ensure that that like
you know it's like in the old world we
didn't want people fully utilizing their
AI because it would cost us money. Now
it's like much better if people use more
AI. Um, it is more expensive for sure
and we've had a lot of user complaints
around that which sucks if any customers
are listening. Like it's a bummer. Um,
it really does suck, but it's like we
just could not afford to keep
subsidizing the way that we were. Um,
and like all in all, I would say it's
gone pretty well. like we're still we're
still growing pretty well and now it's
like uh a growth that is sustainable not
like a
>> you know unsustainable subsidized
revenue growth. So tricky thing to do.
>> Would you ever train your own models?
>> I think it we would definitely do like
what um
some of our competitors are doing where
we would fine-tune models and do RL and
that type of stuff. I um it's hard for
me to imagine us competing with training
like a full frontier level model just
the amount of capital that costs.
>> We do have a ton of interesting data
like
>> I think it's like actually a really
interesting strategic asset for us in
terms of like the workflows people are
doing in the terminal, how to improve
them, how people are interacting with
our agent. Um, so I think it's likely
that we will we will do some sort of RL.
Uh, and I think it's also very likely
that we're going to lean more into a
mixture of models and more model routing
to try to like give users the best
experience when it comes to sort of
latency, cost, and quality, which are
the three
>> Yeah.
>> the three sort of like vectors here.
>> And do you see your role as kind of like
optimizing that on behalf of users? Do
you want to see yourselves as giving all
options to users for them to pick?
>> Yeah. So, our our philosophy has been
like make a great default, but then
because these are developers, they want
control. So, we have like um an we
actually have a couple variants of
default. So, we have like an a default
that's geared towards like efficiency
and one that's geared towards
performance. And then after that, we
give people the raw choice. Um the raw
choice is like a little weird because
like increasingly we really want to like
use different models for different
things internally and it doesn't map
that cleanly on using say like you know
GPT52 for everything. So it's it's a
little complicated but I think it's
actually something that developers like
is the control and so I don't see us
moving away from that right now.
>> Yeah. Um, one of the most interesting
parts about where you sit is that you
can actually see which models different
developers are using. And so I'm curious
in your user base, which models are most
popular. Has it evened out a lot? And
are like, are there different flavors or
personalities of what the different
models are good at?
>> Like 70 to 80% of our user base will use
whatever we set our auto to and not
touch it.
Um, and what we set the auto to
currently is like, um, it's a different
one for efficient and a different one
for performance. It's a mix of the, um,
codeex, sorry, GPT5 too, but it could be
it's related to codecs and then uh,
Sonnet 45. Um when people are opting
into choosing a model uh lately Gemini 3
Pro has been very popular. It's a really
good model. You know what what we will
do is like we will test different
variants in our auto model and see how
people respond, how they engage with
them. And I think we'll probably test
Gemini 3. I've been impressed with it.
Um,
so yeah, I would say I would if I had to
like stack rank, I would probably say
like the anthropic models are probably
still most popular. And then um between
Gemini and OpenAI, there's there's a
decent amount of people opting into each
of those.
>> What about Grock?
>> Grock is not in Warp. Um, it could be in
Warp. They've reached out a bunch of
times to put it in Warp. We we I'm not I
have I'm not at all opposed to putting
in Warp. It's just like every time we
put a model in warp, we have to I like
would like some concrete benefit to
users and because it's a bunch of work
to to tune our harness to work well with
the model.
>> I see.
>> Interesting.
>> Can you say a word more about that
harness? Like what do you do uh to make
your harness good?
>> So harness is like how you how you
prompt, what tools you make available,
how it um how you manage context.
Um, and so like the big things that like
are determining quality of harness are
like it's literally like the language of
the prompting. It's the tool set
definition.
Um, it's things like handling the
context window. So specifically
when do you uh use something like a sub
agent where you where you uh go out and
you have something as a separate context
window. When do you summarize? When do
you truncate? Like we have things that
have like you know you might run a
terminal command that has like gigantic
output and you don't want that all in
your context window but you might want
some part of it in your context window.
So how do you sort of pick out the right
stuff? How do you do rag? How do you
integrate with MCP? And so it's um
there's just like some engineering and
like alpha that goes into that. The way
that you make that good is by measuring.
uh like you can start just by like in a
pretty like naive way and just give it a
bunch of prompts, but the way that you
make it really good is by measuring and
by measuring you can do it with um sort
of like a fixed set of evals where we
know uh what the results should be and
like not all of them should work. Uh and
so we have internal evals. You can do it
on public benchmarks and that's actually
been really good for getting our harness
to be awesome is just like going through
the exercise of making our agent perform
well on the public benchmarks and then
you can do it by looking at like uh you
know user data and so we use um brain
trust. So so there's various platforms
you can use to like sort of look for
patterns and failure modes in the agent
interaction and then try to tune the
harness and sort of replay them as eval.
So,
>> you know, that was a big mindset shift
for us, like to to get to doing that,
but that was 100% necessary to do it all
data driven to get to something that was
good.
>> Yeah. Got it. And do you have your own
tab autocomplete models? Is that just
not even relevant for your your product?
>> We don't have that. Um, it's not super
duper relevant at the moment. Um, like I
think there would be incremental benefit
if we were doing tab completion in the
terminal for people. And I we do have
and I think for like the hand editing
parts of warp by far like the more
typical use case is for code review of
an agent's code than it is like typing
code but it it is it would be nice to
have. It's just not a not an area high
priority for us.
>> Yeah. Got it. Awesome. I'd love to talk
a little bit about how you see the
future of um coding interfa interfaces
and see the future workbench evolving.
So it seems like very much like you
believe there's a convergence happening
between kind of the traditional call it
Microsoft Word IDE guey approach to
writing code and then the chat with your
computer um agentic um kind of uh style
of you know terminal first approach and
those those two are starting to merge.
What other kind of UI innovations do you
think are happening in terms of how
people work with coding agents?
I think the biggest change that we're
going to see in the next year is more
and more um like kind of like cloud
agents or we call them agents
>> where and this is already happening like
we're investing in this at warp where
rather than a developer sitting at a
keyboard giving a prompt there's some
system event that triggers an agent to
do something and that system event could
be like you have a server that's
crashing you have a cluster of user
reports reports um someone has reported
like a filed like a security incident
against you and all those things are
basically going to serve as context into
an agent that gets launched and runs not
on some individual's machine but like
somewhere in the cloud and so what I
think that implies is that you're going
to want um the the sort of like
workbench to become more of an
orchestration platform more of a uh like
kind of cockpit for managing not just
your own agents but your team's agents.
I really think it implies you're going
to need like a strong team concept. Um
because you know the these things aren't
it's not going to be the normal workflow
of like I'm sitting at my desk like I
I'm writing a coding change and I push a
PR. It's like agents are going to push
PRs and then agents are probably going
to leave an initial round of reviews on
PRs and they're going to file tasks or
task tracking system. And so all this
stuff needs like it needs tracking um
and it needs coordination and you need
different ways of integrating it into
existing systems. And so whoever like
this is like what warps probably like
our our biggest product focus for next
year is on this type of of uh evolution
off of just like interactive agents into
the cloud agents because I think it's
going to it's going to be pretty
transformative.
>> And I imagine that's like a massive
infrastructure push to be able to kind
of you know run up and spin up.
>> It is. It's it's it's turning um Yeah.
So like for us it's turning us much more
from a like a product to a platform. And
so the way that we think about building
this out is building it on different
layers of the stack where you have like
an agent SDK, you have um uh agent
hosting if you want it. So like, you
know, if if you're a smaller company and
you don't want to like set up spots in
the cloud for your agents to do their
their their work, Warp will host that
for you. There's a whole category of
startups that are going into this
business of agent hosting. Uh which I
think is really interesting. It speaks
to like this is like a real thing that's
happening.
>> Uh there's an API layer for once you
have the agent running, how do you get
its status and how do you um how do you
maybe take it over or see its progress?
Where does it write its logs? Uh and
then there's like a management layer of
like what are all these things doing?
What states are they in? and what's a
the log like you know who started them
when did they produce PRs and so I think
it's cool because it's going to be the
most impactful way to use these agents a
lot is just not to have a person like
driving them I don't think that this
means that the person driving the agent
is going to go away either I think that
there's like it's a the the sort of
types of tasks that are going to start
with these ambient cloud agents are more
like toil tasks or things that are
oneshotable and I think harder more
interesting software engineering ing is
still going to be done by a developer
like at their workbench. But um yeah,
this is how I I see things evolving in
the next year.
>> That's awesome. And I think one of the
mo more important scaling law charts is
like the the meter like how long can the
the agent run for?
>> Yeah.
>> Um what are you seeing in terms of how
kind of long horizon these agents can
be? I don't know at its max I would say
like doing real coding tasks for us now
is like
20 30 minutes something like that maybe
like you can have it run longer just to
be clear but the
>> run in circles
>> the problem is it will start going in
circles still there's still context
limitations and like it's a it's a
costly proposition to have agents
running without people checking in and
guiding them. And just by far you get
the best results when the agent is
really steered. So when you do like an
upfront plan with the agent,
>> when you check in on the agent's work
and so I think yeah, I think this will
just keep on going up. But the
I I don't I don't know. It's like hours
and hours of work. It needs a really
clearly defined task in order for that
to even make sense to me. needs to be
doing like some like big code migration
or some some big big task.
>> Got it. What do you think the product
might look like when it's good at kind
of being this cockpit to manage, you
know, swarms of these agents?
>> Yeah, we're so we're we're building this
out right now and like we're having all
sorts of internal debates on whether
it's it's it should be one product or
two products. um
uh the way that we're doing it right now
and how I think other people will
probably approach this is like a sort of
like area of our app which is about
agent orchestration.
Um the reason I wonder if it should be a
whole separate product for us is because
like um you know it's it very much it
feels more web centric to me which we
you we can make warp work on the web but
it's not the primary interface. Um it
feels like potentially it has like a
different user some of the time.
>> Um but the advantage of having it
bundled into warp is that it makes the
handoff from one of these cloud tasks to
a developer extremely seamless. And so
very very common workflow like we have
this thing like we have it running in
our slack in our linear um and so what
will often happen is like you'll tag
something in slack and you'll be like
you know can you make this fix for me
change this button position or whatever
and right now you need a developer to
like tie the loop on that. So it'll do
the work in the cloud and then you'll
bring it onto your local machine and
it's very nice to have that be in one
environment where you can just keep
working on it seamlessly. So short
answer is I don't know, but it'll be a
little bit more like a task management
UI.
>> I don't think it's going to quite like
>> I know there's there's like thoughts of
like is task management the primary
primitive for developers to be working
with. I don't buy that either. Like I
don't think like every developer is
going to be doing all their work out of
linear Jira, but I do think there's some
aspect of seeing what the agents are
doing across various systems that
developers are going to want.
>> Yeah. Awesome. I'd love to close by
maybe talking a bit about the state of
Agentic development and and how the
software engineering market will play
out. Sound good?
>> Sure.
>> I guess maybe for starters, where do you
think we are in terms of like the
frontier model, you know, capability uh
frontier like where are the models good
today? Where are they not?
>> Um, you know, still producing all their
errors like where are we?
So, I I'm constantly using this stuff.
Uh I'm I'm somewhat biased because I use
it on Warp's codebase, which is like a
very custom big Rust codebase. But I
think that's still an interesting
perspective.
>> Um the agents can do what I would think
of as like medium complexity tasks
pretty well if you give them a bunch of
guidance. Uh they can't do
like whole big projects. um at least we
haven't had success doing that. They
can't uh I don't trust them to make like
very fundamental architecture uh
decisions for us. Um so it's like you
want like pretty constrained tasks, but
they're well beyond
doing trivial tasks like change the
button color, change the text, like
that's that like they can make apps.
They're very good at zero to one. They
can solve like kind of hard bugs.
uh we have a medium-sized feature like I
don't know what a good example would be
like I was adding a new slash command to
warp the other day and it's like I just
tagged the agent to do that you know in
Slack and it made a 300 line PR and it
was basically right and so I I think
there's a bunch of headroom at the upper
end um
I if if I had to put it on like a scale
of 0 to 10 I think we're at like a six
maybe
>> um so I think it's like It's real. It's
gamechanging for how people work, but
it's not at like the level of doing what
a full-time engineer on a hard product
needs to do.
>> And where do you think the bottlenecks
are? Like is it just pe you know that
models don't have enough context? We
need to get better at giving them
instructions. Is it just we need to keep
scaling these things up? Like what are
the biggest bottlenecks?
>> So I definitely think context window is
still a big issue. Um, and even with the
bigger context windows, it having like
attention over the whole context window
in like a reasonable way is is hard.
>> Um,
I think like
there's like an issue of it always
having to like relearn everything. Like
memory is not just seems like a slow
inefficient repopulate the whole thing
with a bunch of files
take like there's no like continuous
learning with it. So, it's
>> it's like this big stateless thing where
you're kind of always starting from
scratch and have to fill it up before
you can set it loose. That's that sort
of stinks. I would I would like to see
that solved.
Um
there's still like how do you use it
effectively as a developer? We're very
early. Like this stuff didn't exist a
year ago. And so how should you be doing
context engineering? How should you be
setting up your projects so that agents
can work well with them? Um, that's like
a a problem. We if you were to look
across how people on our team use warp
to build, it's like high variance and
you know that's not great because it's
like we have very very great we have
very very like rigorous standards around
writing code and like almost no
standards. I mean we've tried around
like how to use the agents. No one has
been taught how to use the agents. there
aren't even agreed best practices on how
to use the agents and so I think that's
pretty nent.
>> Yeah, got it. Um my experience whenever
I try to vibe code a little bit is that
the coding models still produce a lot of
errors.
>> Yes.
>> Um is that getting better over time and
that seems like to me in the category of
stuff is like if you can verify it like
did it work or did it not you should be
able to RL it. Um, and like where are we
today in in terms of the state of, you
know, how frequently are errors coming
out and like can we actually RL that or
am I misunderstanding something?
>> No, I think that they're still
definitely producing errors. Um,
it's it's interesting. So, it's pretty
infrequent that the agent at this point
will produce something that doesn't
compile for me, which I think is an
interesting milestone. So, like
uh I don't know, not that long ago, four
or five months ago, that was a problem.
Like getting to a compiling version of
the thing. It it compiles for me about
100% of the time right now, which is
amazing.
>> Um it produces stuff with bugs and
errors relatively frequently. I don't
think it has a good way of closing the
loop
>> uh in terms of does the thing work and
so I think some version of browser use
or computer use where the agent can not
only make the change but verify the
change from the user's perspective not
the code perspective is pretty
important.
>> Are people doing that yet? Yeah, I like
we're working on stuff like that like
the the the computer use all of the
model providers are have like beta
versions of like computer use APIs and
um you know browser use for sure
computer use we're looking at like I I
would be surprised if this wasn't a
thing and I I think it becomes even more
important of a thing pretty soon as more
work is done remotely because the real
pain in the ass with the remote work is
verifying that it works from a user
perspective.
So I think that's like a big part of it.
And then I think if you have that loop,
it's probably easier to do RL and get to
things that are behaviorally correct,
not just like static compile correct.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. Okay. Well,
looking forward to that. Um and then I
guess do you think that we're going to
reach a super intelligence moment here
like where where the models are better
at coding than the best human coders?
>> I have no idea. Um
>> no idea.
What I do think is going to happen is I
I think um I don't know if this is super
intelligent. I do think like coding will
be solved by models. Uh and what I what
I mean by that is like I think that the
limiting factor that we're going to come
up against is just like expression of
intent
>> from from humans in terms of like
>> what do you want built? How do you how
do you build it? Like how do you express
that clearly? Like English is ambiguous.
Um,
>> isn't coding the the truest expression
of intent though?
>> Yeah, but that that the problem is we're
moving from a world where people speak
in code to one where they just speak in
English to try to build apps. And so
>> you we're like reintroducing ambiguity
because developers, people building apps
are no longer actually um directly
expressing what they want. They're going
through this translation layer of
telling it to a saying to a model what
they want and then the model produces
the code. So, it's an interesting it's
like an interesting step backwards there
in a sense, but it's also way way way
more efficient to do it this way. Um,
yeah, I think like we'll get to a point
where you actually don't need to be on
the frontier to have something that
produces code that is as well matched to
a person's intent as possible. Uh, so I
I and I think that actually is an
interesting thing from a competitive
perspective. I wouldn't want to be in
the API business for coding tokens
because I do think like at some point
there's going to you won't you just
won't need to be on the frontier. You're
not be able to charge a huge margin on
top of it which is why I think actually
you see anthropic and uh open AAI and
Google going so hard at the application
layer because there's huge risk at the
API layer. just for this vertical in
particular that I think things are
basically solved within a few years.
>> Yeah,
>> I don't know that that's just I'm
prognosticating.
>> Well, that's awesome. Do you think that
people will ever are are people already
thinking about the amount they spend on
coding tools being, you know, the
replacement of what they would be
spending on, you know, hiring few
software engineers or are they thinking
about in their heads as buying a tool
still?
So when we talk to enterprises, it is it
is still viewed as like uh by and large
is like a productivity boost. Yeah. And
that's like the way that it's being
evaluated.
In fact, it's really hard to measure
even what like the effectiveness of this
stuff. And so it tends to fall back to
subjective measurements from engineers
like do you feel like you're getting a
bunch of value out of this or not? Or
maybe you look at like Dora metrics or
like it's really hard to like to know.
So, I don't think that they're viewing
it yet uh by and large, at least as as
um labor spend. And I think today if you
pitch like here's a $200,000 agent to
replace your $200,000 engineer or
whatever, they would be like what? Like
no, like not even not even close. Like
um so but I I would expect that this
starts to change.
>> What do you think will change that?
>> It's a great question.
I think it's like in increasing the uh
automation use cases or may may maybe
another way of thinking is like if if
companies start to launch products
without engineers
I think that that will be like a major
proof point and to be clear I don't want
this to happen. I'm like an engineer at
heart and and I don't want people losing
their jobs. But there will be pro
projects products that are launched
where there's like very very minimal
engineering involved and you're going to
look at the spend for that and be like
okay this was the cost of delivering the
product and you're going to be like okay
uh with and without engineers um what's
that like? So I think I think you need
more of that to happen. I don't think
that's happening very much yet.
>> H got it. And maybe last question, I'd
love to chat about how you see coding as
an art form and therefore, you know,
your role in the world evolving. You
wrote this blog post that I loved back
in 2023, I think. Um, everyone should go
go give it a read. It's called uh I
think it's about the future of
productivity interfaces being ask and
adjust. Maybe say a word on that
>> and and how you think, you know, three
years in how you think that's evolved.
>> Yeah. So I wrote this like pretty
shortly after chat GPT came out and we
started um like trying to deeply
integrate it into warp. And the the idea
was this sound really obvious right now
but the way that like productivity
interfaces have always worked in the
past was that that they were geared
towards hand editing, right? And by hand
editing, um, it could be like you go
into Figma and you're like drawing
vectors or you go into Google Sheets and
you're entering cells or you go into VS
Code and you're typing code. And my
thesis in that article was like that's
going to change to a point where the
primary interface is one is a I didn't
have the word agentic at the time but I
it was like AI based where you would ask
uh ask the app to do to make the do the
thing for you and then you as a um human
author would be responsible for
adjusting and adjusting might mean like
reprompting
Or it might mean uh free prompting
failed. It might mean like uh going in
like treating the prior hand editing
interface as like like using that to
like complete your change. And I kind of
think that's where we're at right now
for a lot of like especially for coding.
It's really transitioning to you start
by asking for something and then you
adjust it. Um,
and another thing I said in that
article, which I don't know if it's
right or not, was that I was thinking
about are you going to be able to get
rid of the adjustment piece? And my
thesis was that the the area where
you're going to need the adjustment
piece the least is in areas where
there's like a lot of like acceptable
solutions. So that would be like
creative domains. You know, if you ask
for an image of something, there's
probably a thousand outcome, a thousand
images that might work for you. And so,
you can just reprompt, repromp, reprompt
until you get what you want. Whereas for
something like code
um or a spreadsheet where there's one
thing that needs to be right that you
would have to keep that ability to like
get it perfect with a hand editing
interface. So, that was the thesis. I
think it's it wasn't bad. I think it's
held up okay.
>> Not bad.
>> Yeah. Um, yeah. I guess you didn't coin
agentic editing back then. No.
>> Yeah, the thesis was spot on. Um,
>> we did. You want to know something we
coined at Warp?
>> What'd you coin
>> which we should have like trademarked is
agent mode. So, we were the first
product to launch a branded thing called
agent mode. And if you like look this up
on chat GPT and just like ask like where
did this come from? It came from warp.
And now that's like a a very common like
way of describing the feature which I
wish we were getting um you know some
kickbacks for that or something.
>> Totally. I love it. Well, thanks so much
for coming on to share what you're doing
um and you know your observations on the
coding market as a whole. It's such a
white hot competitive market and and the
way that you think you know the terminal
will be the workbench for the future and
how it's going to evolve. Um it was it
was awesome uh to to have this chat
today. Thanks, Zach.
>> Thanks, Sonia. It's awesome to be here.